>> Speaker 1: Now that you know a little
bit about domain names and web host,
let's take a little bit of a closer
look at the web browser itself.
So remember I mentioned where a web
browser was it's that piece of software
that runs on the client, that's going
to the display a web page for you and
there are tons of choices of web
browsers that are out there.
But generally speaking is
we work in web development,
we're typically gonna do that on
the computer that's here in front of us.
It's usually a laptop or
a desktop computer and
it's going to be running two specific
browsers that are highly recommended, and
are pretty much used by all web
professionals out there for
development purposes, and
that would be Chrome, and Firefox.
So these are the standard commercial
browsers that you can just go and
download or what you want.
You'll want to install
these on your computer.
You may also hear about something
called Chrome Canary and
something called Firefox Developer.
These are the latest, hottest, most
cutting-edge browsers that are out there.
They still haven't gone
through full testing.
They may be full of bugs.
They may have all kinds of other issues.
Sometimes, these are helpful for
developers who are doing some really
cutting edge programming techniques.
But generally speaking, for
where you are right now and
your learning process, you don't
need to worry about Chrome Canary or
the Firefox Developer browser just
go ahead and stay away from those.
Just use the standard issue Chrome and
Firefox that you'll find
out there on the internet.
Now one of the things about front-end web
development is centered all around this
browser and I got to tell you, this is
the hard part of working on the browser.
Every browser does things
slightly differently.
We've become so much better at this now,
20 years after the fact.
When I was getting into the field,
we were really fragmented.
We had one way of doing
things in Netscape and
a different way of doing
things in Internet Explorer.
And we really had to code two websites,
one for each kind of browser.
We've become more standards
compliant through the years,
bu there are still issues
with these browsers.
One of the notable things is that
the front-end web development in terms of
the programming that we have available to
us is rapidly advancing and changing, and
people are not updating their
computers as frequently.
So we have browsers that understand
one level of programming from 10 or
15 years ago and
we have programming techniques that have
evolved since then that these older
browsers they just don't understand.
Because when they were invented and
the browser was programmed,
these web programs simply didn't exist.
So one of the biggest defenders in
this category is Internet Explorer.
And currently, it's last released.
The very last time Internet Explorer
was released was in 2013.
It's Internet Explorer version 11 and it's
still out there in the news 5 years later.
Some people had started the move to Edge.
Edge is gonna have automatic updates.
So this will be less of a problem in
the future, but this is something that is
going to haunt you throughout your
front-end web developing career.
What browsers exactly are my
target audience using and
what level of programming am I
able to do in order to satisfy
those browsers that they
happen to be using?
So as I said, the web pages can look
different in different browsers.
This is something that commonly happens.
The browser may not support
those latest technology choices.
That's often at the root of this.
The browser may render some of
that programming incorrectly and
that is just something that
you're gonna wind up testing for.
So you're gonna need to just test your
work in many different browsers and
devices to ensure consistent rendering.
So what's gonna happen eventually
as you evolve in your career?
You're gonna be doing a project,
the client in terms of the person who owns
the website will tell you most of
the people that visit my website are using
the following web browsers and you'll need
to make sure that you test with those.
So I went ahead and I took a look
at the front-end master's website.
And on the left side here, we have
Chrome 10 which was released in 2011.
And on the right side here, we have
Chrome 51 which was released in 2016 and
I went on to a website called
Browsershots that will go ahead and
run your website through a whole
bunch of different browsers and
show you what this looks like.
So I can guarantee that guys who built
the front-end master's website had no care
as to what Chrome 10 looked like for
the current website.
Their target audience isn't using it.
Really, nobody is using it anymore
from this automatic updates.
But as you can see here on
the left-hand side that, that web
page look somewhat different than it does
over here at the right side in Chrome 51,
a later version of the browser and
that's because programming has evolved and
the techniques that was used
here were not existing in 2011.
So it doesn't say anything about
the front-end master's programmers,
they're doing a perfectly good job.
This is just to show you that the website
browsers themselves are technology from
a certain period of time and they may not
necessarily render your page faithfully.
Here is what does work very well, though.
That page there on the left-hand side even
though it's not all the latest bells and
whistles, it's still very readable,
very navigatable and
it's very easy to get the information
that you need out of that website.
Ultimately, that's the best
test of whether you're website
is compatible with certain browsers.
So now you are all panicked,
what browser should I support?
Well, the answer is always, it depends.
As you are beginner, what I do in my
classes at Harvard University is I
tell the students just focus
on either Chrome or Firefox.
Pick one just focus on that.
It's either gonna work right
on your Mac or your PC.
And when I actually do grading, I have my
students tell me, is it a Mac on Firefox?
Is it a Chrome on a PC?
To make sure that I'm grading
them under those conditions.
You can always backfill your technology
later and worry about that stuff later.
So right now, it's really important
just to concentrate on the standards
compliant way of doing things and
the latest best ways of doing things,
and then we can backfill for
the old technology.